
1.

Such construction is discussed in Section 4.6.3 for the ToS of closed QIITs.
The construction itself is rather tedious. As to the assumptions for the
construction, I think that De Boer and Brunerie's assumptions are close to
minimal; I don't think that we can weaken any of those. Possibly, the use of
propositional extensionality could be avoided. For infinitary QIITs, I
conjecture that the construction can be done with the assumption of WISC (weakly
initial sets of covers); see https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.02994.

2.

In an earlier version of the thesis, I planned to include a section on
Böhm-Berarducci encodings and also Awodey-Frey-Speight encodings
(https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.02820), as a generalization of term algebras.  I
omitted this because I got stuck when trying to interpret the dependent internal
Pi type is signatures.  However, if we only consider non-dependent internal
product type (which precludes real inductive-inductive signatures but allows
indexed induction), then there's a pretty good story about such encodings.

BB-encoding is a term algebra construction, where we don't build things from the
initial model of ToS but instead from the impredicative Set model. For example,
the underlying set of the term algebra for Nat is

    Nat := Tm (∙,N : U, z : El N, s : N → El N) (El N)

But when we interpret this in the impredicative Set model, we get

    Nat := (alg : (N : Set) × N × (N → N)) → alg.N

which is exactly the BB encoding. Also, if we do the term model construction
from the "impredicative graph model" of ToS, we get the Awodey-Frey-Speight
encoding, which does support elimination, although only targeting the
impredicative Set universe. In the impredicative graph model, a context is
modeled as a Set together with a Set-valued relation on it.

3.

For IR, I think that the existing signatures in the literature are already
pretty close to the style of ToS-es, and probably the style of semantics in my
thesis could be also adapted. However, I don't think that the term
algebra construction can be adapted to IR. The ToS of IR definitions is itself
not IR but just a plain QIIT. Since IR is proof-theoretically very strong, I
don't think that IR types could be constructed just from a plain QIIT.
